README.md, before:

# @plasius/hexagons

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@plasius/hexagons.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plasius/hexagons)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Plasius-LTD/hexagons/ci.yml?branch=main&label=build&style=flat)](https://github.com/Plasius-LTD/hexagons/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Plasius-LTD/hexagons)](https://codecov.io/gh/Plasius-LTD/hexagons)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Plasius-LTD/hexagons)](./LICENSE)
[![Code of Conduct](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20of%20conduct-yes-blue.svg)](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
[![Security Policy](https://img.shields.io/badge/security%20policy-yes-orange.svg)](./SECURITY.md)
[![Changelog](https://img.shields.io/badge/changelog-md-blue.svg)](./CHANGELOG.md)

Public package containing hexagonal architecture utilities and game/domain helpers for Plasius applications.

Primary demo surface name: **Generator**.


## Install

```bash
npm install @plasius/hexagons
```

## Usage

```ts
import { worldMap } from "@plasius/hexagons";
```

## Development

```bash
npm install
npm run build
npm test
```

## Governance

- Security policy: [SECURITY.md](./SECURITY.md)
- Code of conduct: [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- ADRs: [docs/adrs](./docs/adrs)
- Legal docs: [legal](./legal)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

chore: enforce dual ESM/CJS runtime boundary

README.md, after:

# @plasius/hexagons

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@plasius/hexagons.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plasius/hexagons)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Plasius-LTD/hexagons/ci.yml?branch=main&label=build&style=flat)](https://github.com/Plasius-LTD/hexagons/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Plasius-LTD/hexagons)](https://codecov.io/gh/Plasius-LTD/hexagons)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Plasius-LTD/hexagons)](./LICENSE)
[![Code of Conduct](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20of%20conduct-yes-blue.svg)](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
[![Security Policy](https://img.shields.io/badge/security%20policy-yes-orange.svg)](./SECURITY.md)
[![Changelog](https://img.shields.io/badge/changelog-md-blue.svg)](./CHANGELOG.md)

Public package containing hexagonal architecture utilities and game/domain helpers for Plasius applications.

Primary demo surface name: **Generator**.


## Install

```bash
npm install @plasius/hexagons
```

## Module formats

This package publishes dual ESM and CJS artifacts.
When CJS output is emitted under `dist-cjs/*.js` with `type: module`, `dist-cjs/package.json` is generated with `{ "type": "commonjs" }` to ensure Node `require(...)` compatibility.


## Usage

```ts
import { worldMap } from "@plasius/hexagons";
```

## Development

```bash
npm install
npm run build
npm test
```

## Governance

- Security policy: [SECURITY.md](./SECURITY.md)
- Code of conduct: [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- ADRs: [docs/adrs](./docs/adrs)
- Legal docs: [legal](./legal)

## License

MIT
